Exercise 4.5.19 Prove that if $|G|=6545$ then $G$ is not simple.
Proof.
Since $|G|=132=2^{2}.3.11$, $G$ has $2-$Sylow subgroup of order $4$, as well as $11-$Sylow subgroup of order $11$, and $3-$Sylow subgroup of order $3$. Now, we count the number of such subgroups. Let $n_{11}$ be the number of  $11-$Sylow subgroup and $n_{3}$ be the number of  $3-$Sylow subgroup. Now $n_{11}=1+11k$ where $1+11k|12$. The choices for $k$ are $0$ or $1$. If $k=0$, there is only one $11-$Sylow subgroup and hence normal. So, assume now, that there are $12$ $11-$Sylow subgroup(for $k=1$). Now we look at $3-$ Sylow subgroups. $n_{3}=1+3k| 44$. So choice for $k$ are $0$, $1$, and $7$. If $k=0$, there is only one $3-$Sylow subgroup and hence normal. So, assume now, that there are $4$ $2-$Sylow subgroup (for $k=3$). Now we claim that simultaneously, there cannot be $12$ $11-$Sylow subgroup and $4$ $3-$Sylow subgroups provided there is more than one $2-$Sylow subgroups. So, either $2-$Sylow subgroup is normal or if not, then, either $11-$Sylow subgroup is normal being unique, or  the $3-$Sylow subgroup is normal(We don't consider the possibility of $22$ $3-$Sylow subgroup because of obvious reason). Now, to prove the claim, we observe that there are $120$ elements of order $11$. Also there are $8$ elements of order $3$. So we already get $120+8+1=129$ distinct elements in the group. Let us count the number of $2-$Sylow subgroups in $G$. $n_{2}=1+2k|33$. The possibilities for $k$ are $0$, $1$, $5$, $16$. Now, assume there is more than one $2-$Sylow subgroups. Let $H_{1}$ and $H_{2}$ be two distinct  $2-$Sylow subgroup. Now $|H_{1}|=4$. So we already get $129+3=132$ distinct elements in the group. Now $H_{2}$ being distinct from $H_{1}$, has at least one element which is not in $H_{1}$. This adds one more element in the group, at the least. Now already we have number of elements in the group exceeding the number of element in $G$. This gives a contradiction and proves the claim.
Hence $G$ is not simple.
Qed.