Exercise 4.5.17 Prove that if $|G|=105$ then $G$ has a normal Sylow 5 -subgroup and a normal Sylow 7-subgroup.
Proof.
Since $|G|=105=3.5.7$, $G$ has $3-$Sylow subgroup of order $3$, as well as $5-$Sylow subgroup of order $5$ and, $7-$Sylow subgroup of order 7. Now, we count the number of such subgroups. Let $n_{3}$ be the number of $3-$Sylow subgroup, $n_{5}$ be the number of  $5-$Sylow subgroup, and $n_{7}$ be the number of $7-$Sylow subgroup. Now $n_{7}=1+7k$ where $1+7k|15$. The choices for $k$ are $0$ or $1$. If $k=0$, there is only one $7-$Sylow subgroup and hence normal. So, assume now, that there are $15$ $7-$Sylow subgroup(for $k=1$). Now we look at $5-$ Sylow subgroups. $n_{5}=1+5k| 21$. So choice for $k$ are $0$ and $4$. If $k=0$, there is only one $5-$Sylow subgroup and hence normal. So, assume now, that there are $24$ $5-$Sylow subgroup (for $k=4$). Now we claim that simultaneously, there cannot be $15$ $7-$Sylow subgroup and $24$ $5-$Sylow subgroup. So, either $7-$Sylow subgroup is normal being unique, or  the $5-$Sylow subgroup is normal. Now, to prove the claim, we observe that there are 90 elements of order $7$. Also, see that there are $24\times 4=96$ number of elements of order 5. So we get $90+94=184$ number of elements which exceeds the order of the group. This gives a contradiction and proves the claim. So, now we have proved that there is either a normal $5-$Sylow subgroup or a normal $7-$Sylow subgroup.
    Now we prove that indeed both $5-$ Sylow subgroup and 7 -Sylow subgroup are normal. Assume that 7 -Sylow subgroup is normal. So, there is a unique 7 -Sylow subgroup, say $H$. Now assume that there are 245 -Sylow subgroups. So, we get again $24 \times 4=96$ elements of order 5 . From $H$ we get 7 elements which gives us total of $96+7=103$ elements. Now consider the number of 3 -Sylow subgroups. $n_3=1+3 k \mid 35$. Then the possibilities for $k$ are 0 and 2 . But we can rule out $k=2$ because having 73 -Sylow subgroup, will mean we have 14 elements of order 3 . So we get $103+14=117$ elements in total which exceeds the order of the group. So we have now that there is a unique 3 -Sylow subgroup and hence normal. Call that subgroup $K$. Now take any one 5 -Sylow subgroup, call it $L$. Now observe $L K$ is a subgroup of $G$ with order 15 . We know that a group of order 15 is cyclic by an example in Page-143 of the book. So, there is an element of order 15. Actually we have $\phi(15)=8$ number of elements of order 15. But then again we already had 103 elements and then we actually get at least $103+8=111$ elements which exceeds the order of the group. So, there can't be 24 5-Sylow subgroups, and hence there is a unique 5-Sylow subgroup, and hence normal.
Qed.