Exercise 8.2.4 Let $R$ be an integral domain. Prove that if the following two conditions hold then $R$ is a Principal Ideal Domain: (i) any two nonzero elements $a$ and $b$ in $R$ have a greatest common divisor which can be written in the form $r a+s b$ for some $r, s \in R$, and (ii) if $a_{1}, a_{2}, a_{3}, \ldots$ are nonzero elements of $R$ such that $a_{i+1} \mid a_{i}$ for all $i$, then there is a positive integer $N$ such that $a_{n}$ is a unit times $a_{N}$ for all $n \geq N$.
Proof.
Let $I \leq R$ be a nonzero ideal and let $I / \sim$ be the set of equivalence classes of elements of $I$ with regards to the relation of being associates. We can equip $I / \sim$ with a partial order with $[x] \leq[y]$ if $y \mid x$. Condition (ii) implies all chains in $I / \sim$ have an upper bound, so By Zorn's lemma $I / \sim$ contains a maximal element, i.e. $I$ contains a class of associated elements which are minimal with respect to divisibility.

Now let $a, b \in I$ be two elements such that $[a]$ and $[b]$ are minimal with respect to divisibility. By condition (i) $a$ and $b$ have a greatest common divisor $d$ which can be expressed as $d=$ $a x+b y$ for some $x, y \in R$. In particular, $d \in I$. Since $a$ and $b$ are minimal with respect to divisibility, we have that $[a]=[b]=[d]$. Therefore $I$ has at least one element $a$ that is minimal with regard to divisibility and all such elements are associate, and we have $I=\langle a\rangle$ and so $I$ is principal. We conclude $R$ is a principal ideal domain.
Qed.