Exercise 4.5.28 Let $G$ be a group of order 105. Prove that if a Sylow 3-subgroup of $G$ is normal then $G$ is abelian.
Proof.
Given that $G$ is a group of order $1575=3^2 .5^2 .7$. Now, Let $n_p$ be the number of Sylow-p subgroups. It is given that Sylow-3 subgroup is normal and hence is unique, so $n_3=1$. First we prove that both Sylow-5 subgroup and Sylow 7-subgroup are normal. Let $P$ be the Sylow3 subgroup. Now, Consider $G / P$, which has order $5^2 .7$. Now, the number of Sylow $-5$ subgroup of $G / P$ is given by $1+5 k$, where $1+5 k \mid 7$. Clearly $k=0$ is the only choice and hence there is a unique Sylow-5 subgroup of $G / P$, and hence normal. In the same way Sylow-7 subgroup of $G / P$ is also unique and hence normal. Consider now the canonical map $\pi: G \rightarrow G / P$. The inverse image of Sylow-5 subgroup of $G / P$ under $\pi$, call it $H$, is a normal subgroup of $G$, and $|H|=3^2 .5^2$. Similarly, the inverse image of Sylow-7 subgroup of $G / P$ under $\pi$ call it $K$ is also normal in $G$ and $|K|=3^2 .7$. Now, consider $H$. Observe first that the number of Sylow-5 subgroup in $H$ is $1+5 k$ such that $1+5 k \mid 9$. Again $k=0$ and hence $H$ has a unique Sylow-5 subgroup, call it $P_1$. But, it is easy to see that $P_1$ is also a Sylow-5 subgroup of $G$, because $\left|P_1\right|=25$. But now any other Sylow 5 subgroup of $G$ is of the form $g P_1 g^{-1}$ for some $g \in G$. But observe that since $P_1 \subset H$ and $H$ is normal in $G$, so $g P_1 g^1 \subset H$, and $g P_1 g^{-1}$ is also Sylow-5 subgroup of $H$. But, then as Sylow-5 subgroup of $H$ is unique we have $g P_1 g^{-1}=P_1$. This shows that Sylow-5 subgroup of $G$ is unique and hence normal in $G$.

Similarly, one can argue the same for $K$ and deduce that Sylow-7 subgroup of $G$ is unique and hence normal. So, the first part of the problem is done.
Qed.