Exercise 28.4 A space $X$ is said to be countably compact if every countable open covering of $X$ contains a finite subcollection that covers $X$. Show that for a $T_1$ space $X$, countable compactness is equivalent to limit point compactness.
Proof.
First let $X$ be a countable compact space. Note that if $Y$ is a closed subset of $X$, then $Y$ is countable compact as well, for if $\left\{U_n\right\}_{n \in \mathbb{Z}_{+}}$is a countable open covering of $Y$, then $\left\{U_n\right\}_{n \in \mathbb{Z}_{+}} \cup(X \backslash Y)$ is a countable open covering of $X$; there is a finite subcovering of $X$, hence a finite subcovering of $Y$. Now let $A$ be an infinite subset. We show that $A$ has a limit point. Let $B$ be a countable infinite subset of $A$. Suppose that $B$ has no limit point, so that $B$ is closed in $X$. Then $B$ is countable compact. Since $B$ has no limit point, for each $b \in B$ there is a neighbourhood $U_b$ of $b$ that intersects $B$ in the point $b$ alone. Then $\left\{U_b\right\}_{b \in B}$ is an open covering of $B$ with no finite subcovering, contradicting the fact that $B$ is countable compact. Hence $B$ has a limit point, so that $A$ has a limit point as well. Since $A$ was arbitrary, we deduce that $X$ is limit point compact. (Note that the $T_1$ property is not necessary in this direction.)

Now assume that $X$ is a limit point compact $T_1$ space. We show that $X$ is countable compact. Suppose, on the contrary, that $\left\{U_n\right\}_{n \in \mathbb{Z}_{+}}$is a countable open covering of $X$ with no finite subcovering. For each $n$, take a point $x_n$ in $X$ not in $U_1 \cup \cdots \cup U_n$. By assumption, the infinite set $A=\left\{x_n \mid n \in \mathbb{Z}_{+}\right\}$has a limit point $y \in X$. Since $\left\{U_n\right\}_{n \in \mathbb{Z}_{+}}$covers $X$, there exists $N \in \mathbb{Z}_{+}$such that $y \in U_1 \cup \cdots \cup U_N$. Now $X$ is $T_1$, so for each $i=1, \ldots, N$ there exists a neighbourhood $V_i$ of $y$ that does not contain $x_i$. Then
$$
V=\left(V_1 \cap \cdots \cap V_N\right) \cap\left(U_1 \cup \cdots \cup U_N\right)
$$
is a neighbourhood of $y$ that does not contain any of the points $x_i$, contradicting the fact that $y$ is a limit point of $A$. It follows that every countable open covering of $X$ must have a finite subcovering, so $X$ is countable compact.
Qed.