Exercise 4.6 If $f$ is defined on $E$, the graph of $f$ is the set of points $(x, f(x))$, for $x \in E$. In particular, if $E$ is a set of real numbers, and $f$ is real-valued, the graph of $f$ is a subset of the plane. Suppose $E$ is compact, and prove that $f$ is continuous on $E$ if and only if its graph is compact.
Proof.
Let $Y$ be the co-domain of the function $f$. We invent a new metric space $E \times Y$ as the set of pairs of points $(x, y), x \in E, y \in Y$, with the metric $\rho\left(\left(x_1, y_1\right),\left(x_2, y_2\right)\right)=d_E\left(x_1, x_2\right)+d_Y\left(y_1, y_2\right)$. The function $\varphi(x)=(x, f(x))$ is then a mapping of $E$ into $E \times Y$.

We claim that the mapping $\varphi$ is continuous if $f$ is continuous. Indeed, let $x \in X$ and $\varepsilon>0$ be given. Choose $\eta>0$ so that $d_Y(f(x), f(u))<\frac{\varepsilon}{2}$ if $d_E(x, y)<\eta$. Then let $\delta=\min \left(\eta, \frac{\varepsilon}{2}\right)$. It is easy to see that $\rho(\varphi(x), \varphi(u))<\varepsilon$ if $d_E(x, u)<\delta$. Conversely if $\varphi$ is continuous, it is obvious from the inequality $\rho(\varphi(x), \varphi(u)) \geq d_Y(f(x), f(u))$ that $f$ is continuous.

From these facts we deduce immediately that the graph of a continuous function $f$ on a compact set $E$ is compact, being the image of $E$ under the continuous mapping $\varphi$. Conversely, if $f$ is not continuous at some point $x$, there is a sequence of points $x_n$ converging to $x$ such that $f\left(x_n\right)$ does not converge to $f(x)$. If no subsequence of $f\left(x_n\right)$ converges, then the sequence $\left\{\left(x_n, f\left(x_n\right)\right\}_{n=1}^{\infty}\right.$ has no convergent subsequence, and so the graph is not compact. If some subsequence of $f\left(x_n\right)$ converges, say $f\left(x_{n_k}\right) \rightarrow z$, but $z \neq f(x)$, then the graph of $f$ fails to contain the limit point $(x, z)$, and hence is not closed. A fortiori it is not compact.
Qed.